MDWesenLivePatch

This is the firmware Wesen uses when playing live. Its features are: -
direct control of the Master Delay effect, - direct control of the
RAM-P1 machine (filter and SRR) - slicing and repeating parts of the
resampled pattern - "magic" MIDI learn function to quickly learn last
4 moved MD parameters - recording and overdubbing of knob movements

New feature: configuration of sync and merging. Hold down Button1 (top
left) and then switch the MiniCommand ON. CLK selects the input port
(IN1 or IN2), SND activates sending out of the clock on the MIDI
Output, and MRG selects which messages on the second MIDI input will
be merged into the output stream (CC, NOTE or SYX
messages). 

A note about MIDI sync: MIDI clock sync is necessary for the
slicing/repetition and the knob movement part to work. For this, the
MC needs to be synced to the clock of the MachineDrum. The simplest
way to achieve this is to configure the MD to send SYNC information on
its output. In the GLOBAL edit menu, select SYNC and set TEMPO IN to
INTERNAL, CTRL IN to OFF, TEMPO OUT to ON and CTRL OUT to ON. On the
MiniCommand, set CLK (in the configuration menu at startup) to
IN1. When START is pressed on the MachineDrum, the left LED should
blink synchronized to the tempo. Alternatively, if you are using
multiple synthesizers and sequencers, you can connect the clock source
to the second input of the MidiCommand, and select IN2 in the sync
configuration menu, and set SND to ON. This will duplicate the clock
and send it to the MachineDrum. On the MachineDrum, set TEMPO IN to
EXTERNAL and CTRL IN to ON. This way, you can easily chain a lot of
synthesizers. For example, we use 3 MachineDrums and 1 MonoMachine
with 4 MiniCommands on stage. Each MiniCommand is connected directly
to the sequencer it controls. The first MachineDrum generates the
tempo, and in order to start the chain, TEMPO IN is set to INTERNAL,
CTRL IN is set to OFF, TEMPO OUT to ON and CTRL OUT to ON. The first
MiniCommand is set to CLK: IN1 *and* SND: ON. This way, the clock of
the MachineDrum is set again to the MachineDrum, and available on the
THRU output of the MD. This THRU is then connected to the IN2 of the
next MiniCommand, which is configured to CLK: IN2, and SND: ON. The
clock is sent to the MachineDrum the second MiniCommand controls, and
is again available at the THRU output. From there, it is sent to the
IN2 of the next MiniCommand, etc...

New feature: automatic detection of global and kit. When connecting
the MC to the MachineDrum (both input and output), it will detect the
loaded GLOBAL settings and the loaded KIT. It will flash "LOADED KIT"
followed by the KIT name. This allows the MC to use the current
channel settings and the configured triggers for each track (set in
GLOBAL -> MAP EDITOR). It will reload the kit automatically every 3
seconds, and detect changes of GLOBAL and KITs. However, it won't
detect if the currently used GLOBAL has been modified, you need to
switch to another GLOBAL and then back to reload a GLOBAL. This is a
good way to detect if the MC is connected correctly. If it doesn't
load the KIT automatically, either IN or OUT is not connected
correctly.

New feature: automatic detection of a RAM-P1 track. The
MDWesenLivePatch firmware assumes that resampling of the currently
playing firmware is done with RAM-R1 and RAM-P1, and detects the track
of the first RAM-P1 machine in the current track.

New feature: modified page switching. To switch pages in the
MDWesenLivePatch firmware, hold down Button1 (upper left) and press
one of the encoders. The name of the corresponding page is shown above
the encoder: DL1 (first delay control page), DL2 (second delay control
page), RAM (automatic control of the RAM-P1 track if one is present in
the currently loaded KIT) and AUT (automagic learning page).

New feature: magic learning. The fourth page is a simple controller
page with 4 encoders. After switching on, these four encoders are not
assigned. Move some parameters on the MachineDrum, switch to the "AUT"
page and then press Button2 (the bottom left button). The MiniCommand
will MIDI learn the last 4 moved parameters and display their
names. This way, you can move parameters on the MD, then quickly
assign these on the MC, and switch to another page or track on the MD
while still being able to tweak the previous parameters. This is
incredibly useful when playing live: you discover a nice sound combo,
but want to modify something else without losing the ability to tweak
the previous sound.

New feature: knob movement recording. On the "AUT" page, and when MIDI
sync is enabled, you can record knob movements for each of the 4
encoders. Make sure that the sync is running (the left LED is
blinking), hold down Button3 (bottom right), and turn the encoder
while Button3 is held down. This will record the knob movements as
long as the button is held down (and for a duration of 2 bars). When
you release the button, the recorded sequence is played back. You can
overwrite the recorded movement by holding down Button3 again, and
moving the knob. This way, you can easily evolve the recorded
sequences. To clear a sequence, hold down Button4 (top right), and
press the corresponding encoder. This will clear the recorded
sequence. The recorded sequences are also cleared when the KIT on the
MachineDrum is changed, or where a new parameter has been assigned to
one of the encoders. Due to the Button3 and Button4 being used to
control the recording, the breakdown functionality is not accessible
on the "AUT" page.

A very useful feature of the MDWesenLivePatch is the ability to
control the playback of a P1 machine. This functionality is most
useful when recording complete loops into the RAM-P1 machine (by
triggering RAM-R1 on the first step of a pattern). The settings for
the recording are a bit tricky to set, these are the one Wesen uses:

RAM-R1 settings: MLEV: 24, MBAL: 0, LEN: 127, RATE: 127 RAM-P1
settings: PTCH: 0, DEC: 127, HOLD: 127

Make sure you have enough sample RAM left to not deteriorate the
quality of the recordings too much. Once the RAM-R1 has triggered and
recorded two bars, mute the RAM-R1 and unmute the RAM-P1 track. The
MiniCommand will then trigger the RAM-P1 on the first step of the
pattern, thus playing back the recorded version.

The breakdown functionality is available in the "DL1", "DL2" and "RAM"
pages. Hold down Button3 (bottom right) to enable the SupaTrigga
mode. As long as the button is pressed, the playback of the recorded
loop is randomly permutated and cutup (on beat boundaries). Due to the
way the MachineDrum plays back samples, there may be clicks on higher
beat boundaries.

By holding down Button4 (top right), the control page for the
breakdown functionality is displayed. This allows to shorten the
playback loop by retriggering the RAM-P1 machine. SPD sets how often
the loop is retriggered, and BRK selects when there is some variation
in the retriggering. The loop is cut up as long as Button4 is held
down. The breakdown can be made "sticky" by pressing Button1 (top
left) when the breakdown page is active.
